fix: Updates for MongoDB upgrade to V5 (#1068)
appsmithorg/appsmith-docs: website/docs/getting-started/setup/instance-configuration/custom-mongodb-redis.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---
# External MongoDB and Redis

> Appsmith runs embedded instances of MongoDB and Redis. Appsmith uses MongoDB and Redis for data storage and session management. You can use external instances by configuring the instance. External instances are stateless and help in better performance and scalability. Follow the steps on this page to set up external MongoDB and Redis for Appsmith.

Author: > Let's combine some of these lines. Hope you didn't have to change it because of the readability checker? .Also using the word "embedded" here might clash with the separate Embedded DB we are going to have for self-hosted instances which might cause confusion in the future. 
> 
> 
> 
> ```suggestion
> 
> Appsmith runs its own instances of MongoDB for storing the application data and Redis for storing session information. You can also switch to external instances, which makes the Appsmith container stateless, enabling better performance and scalability. Follow the steps on this page to set up external MongoDB and Redis for Appsmith.
> 
> ```
> 
> 

The word embedded is suggested by Sumesh. I will check the content that you suggested.

> Appsmith runs embedded instances of MongoDB and Redis. Appsmith uses embedded MongoDB to store application data and Redis to manage sessions. You can switch to external instances by changing the configuration. This page provides steps to set up Appsmith with external MongoDB and Redis. With external MongoDB and Redis, you can manage your application's scalability and performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appsmith runs embedded instances of MongoDB and Redis. Appsmith uses embedded MongoDB to store application data and Redis to manage sessions. You can switch to external instances by changing the configuration. This page provides steps to set up Appsmith with external MongoDB and Redis. With external MongoDB and Redis, the Appsmith container becomes stateless, allowing better management of the instance in terms of performance and scalability.
```

:::caution Attention

> To use a custom MongoDB with Appsmith v1.9.0 and later, you need MongoDB version 5 or higher. Follow the steps detailed in the MongoDB official documentation to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).

Author: While both "on later" and "onwards" are used to indicate continuing from a certain point, "onwards" is more commonly used in British English. Since we are adhering to the rules and conventions of American English, we should use "on later" instead of "onwards." Also, technically `later` or `higher` terms signify that the compatibility is with v5 and versions that are released after v5. Let's discuss this if needed.

> To use a custom MongoDB with Appsmith v1.9.0 and later, you need MongoDB version 5 or higher. Follow the steps detailed in the MongoDB official documentation to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).

Author: done.

> To use a custom MongoDB with Appsmith v1.9.0 and later, you need MongoDB version 5 or higher. Follow the steps detailed in the MongoDB official documentation to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use a custom MongoDB with Appsmith v1.9.0 and later, you need MongoDB version 5.x . Follow the steps detailed in the MongoDB official documentation to [Upgrade a Replica Set to 5.0](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/manual/release-notes/5.0-upgrade-replica-set/).
```

Author: @sharat87 - Please share your thoughts here.

Reviewer 2: No, v6 is also okay.

:::

## External MongoDB
Follow the below steps to set up an external MongoDB:

### Prerequisites
* Ensure that your external MongoDB has a replica set configuration in place. Connect to your database as an admin user and run [rs.initiate()](https://docs.mongodb.com/manual/reference/method/rs.initiate/). Note that if you're using MongoDB Cloud, the replica set configuration is already set up for you.

> * Ensure that the user you are connecting with has `readWrite` and `clusterMonitor` permissions.

Reviewer 3: It looks a bit confusing.  How about? 

```suggestion
* Ensure the MongoDB user account has `readWrite` and `clusterMonitor` roles assigned.

Author: Rewriting this as - Ensure that the user you are connecting with has `readWrite` and `clusterMonitor` roles assigned. ( as we are in MongoDB section, so IMO we shouldn't add MongoDB to specify that)
